In this video, we're going to
look at how we can customize
the layout and the calculations
within our pivot table.
In the previous video,
we created several pivot
tables and in each case,
when we added a numeric value to
our values quadrant,
it's summed it up.
What this pivot table is showing
us is the total capacity
for each region from 2000-2019.
What we all would like to see is
the average capacity across
the same time frame.
We're going to have to
change our calculation.
There are quite a few
ways of doing this.
If you come to the field in
the values quadrant and click,
you can choose Value
Field Settings.
But if you come into one of
the calculations themselves
and right-click,
you actually get a
lot more options.
That's what we're
going to do and if
you scroll down to
summarize values by,
you'll see the
calculations used most
frequently and
there's our average.
If you wanted a calculation
that you didn't see in the list,
again, right-click but this time,
we're going to come to
value field settings and
this gives us the complete
set of calculations.
You can see it's not a
very extensive list,
but we're going to do
now is set this back to
a sum calculation and then
we're going to say, okay.
Sometimes however, we don't
want to see discrete values.
We actually want to
compare the values.
For example, we all would like to
see what percentage
of capacity is
made up of non-renewable
versus renewable for each region.
To do this again,
we're going to right-click,
but we're going to
come to Show Values As
and there are a lot of
calculations for
generating percentages.
For example, percentage
of grand total will
recalculate each of those values
as percentage of grand total.
But what we would like to see is
a percentage of the row total,
so I'm going to select that.
Now we can straight away see that
South America and
Central America,
more than 60 percent of
their capacity is renewable.
Now, there are loads of options.
Unfortunately, we
can't look at all of
them but let's look at one of
the more interesting ones.
I'm going to right-click,
come to Show Values As and
right near the bottom,
you actually have the
option to rank your fields.
What we all would like to
do is rank the regions
based on capacity from
largest to smallest.
I'm going to click on that
and is checking that
we want region.
I'm going to say okay,
and Asia has a one.
That means it has the
largest renewable capacity,
whereas the Middle
East has the smallest.
Now to remove the calculation,
we just right-click, come to
Show Values As and
choose no calculation.
Quite a few options there for
changing our calculations.
Let's now make our pivot tables
look a little bit
more attractive.
For this, I'm going to come
to my capacity by year sheet.
The first thing
we'd like to do is
change our number formatting.
I don't want so many
decimal places.
I would like a separator
for every three zeros,
a thousand separator and again,
loads of different options here.
But I'd like to show you the
value field settings, again.
In value field settings,
you have not only the option to
choose which function
to summarize by,
you can also select,
Show Values As to change
your calculation and you can
change your number format.
If you're making
a lot of changes,
this dialogue is a good option.
When I click number format,
I can choose any of the
standard ones or create my own.
I'm just going to come to number,
set it to zero decimal places,
and I do want
a 1000 separator and then
I'm going to say, okay.
The other thing I can do
is I can actually
change my table name.
Instead of some of electricity,
I'm going to remove that and make
that total and say okay,
so that looks at a
little bit better.
But for a really
great selection of
options for changing the
formatting of your table,
we're going to come
to our Design tab.
Make sure you are in
your pivot table and
click Design and
here we have options for changing
both our style and our layouts.
We'll start with the styles.
I'm going to click the Dropdown,
the more button, and these just
change your border colors
and your cell color.
But some of them really
make your tables look
nice so choose the one
you like, the look of.
You can then slightly tweak
those style options or you
can change the layout.
So let's start with
our grand totals.
Grand totals automatically show
for each column in each row.
But you can choose to
switch them on for both,
or you can switch them
on for one or the other.
I'm going to leave
mine on for both.
Now, subtotals.
The moment you have more
than one field in your rows,
or your columns quadrant,
you will automatically get
subtotals and by default,
they show at the
top of the group.
But you can choose
to turn these off,
or you can choose to show
them at the bottom of the group.
It may seem a bit more logical,
but it does take more space.
We can also change
our report layout.
So clicking the drop
down by default,
it shows in compact form.
But we could choose
outline form or the more
conventional tabular form.
If you choose tabular,
you can also choose to
repeat all the item labels.
So this now looks more like
a conventional table and I
could copy paste values and
repeat that if I wanted to.
I don't, and I must admit I
prefer the compact forms.
I'm going to switch back to that.
Lastly, you have
the option to add
a blank row after each group.
This just adds readability TR
table to make it look nice.
Now having to go through
this process for
every pivot table can be a
little bit time-consuming.
If you have 2019 Excel or later,
you actually have the
new option to change
your default styles
of your tables.
I'll quickly show
you how to do this.
We're going to come to file,
then options and data.
Right at the top,
is make changes to the default
layout of pivot tables.
We're going to click the
"Edit default layout".
You can either import it from
an existing Pivot Table
or just go and set
it up manually.
If you decide you want to
go back to the default,
you can always do that.
So if you have one of
the later versions,
I encourage you to come
in there and have a play.
I'm going to cancel
for now and okay.
You also have a few slightly
more hidden layout options
behind the right-click.
To demonstrate this, I'm going
to get the region field from
my field list and drop it
into the top of my rows quadrant.
So I now have a breakdown
by region as well,
and now you can see I'm
getting two sets of subtotals,
but I don't want both.
I actually want to
switch it off for
the region and we can do this.
I'm going to come to one of
the regions and right-click.
There's an option to show
or not show the subtotal.
When I select that,
you can see it now switched
off the subtotals for my regions.
What's even more
interesting is you can
change the calculation
for your subtotal.
So to do this, I'm going to come
to non-renewable and I'm going
to right-click and I'm going
to come down to field settings.
Now at this point, I
could switch it off
or I can come to customize.
I could choose to
have an average,
or I can have an
average and a sum.
So one-click turns it on,
another click turns it
off and then I'm
going to say, "Okay".
I'm now getting two subtotals.
It has moved them to the bottom,
but isn't that amazing?
Finally, if we come to our
pivot table, Analyze ribbon,
on the far left is
an options button and
in the newer version,
there's a really
interesting option in
the layout and format
which allows us to
specify what we want to
see when there's no
data for that field.
So Pivot Tables by default
show it as a blank cell.
What we could choose
to show it as a zero.
I'm going to say "Okay" and
the change has been met.
We don't really want to keep
our region in our rows quadrant.
So I'm going to grab region,
grab and drop that
out to get rid of it,
and there's our beautifully
formatted Pivot Table.
So the main takeaways from
this video to change
your calculations,
right-click on one of
the calculated values
and you've got
your show values by or
your show values as.
To change both your layout
and you're styling,
you've got your design ribbon to
make your pivot look great.